What should a dataset contain?
As depicted by the Tier 4.0 template, a well-prepared dataset typically includes several core components.
Raw data
These are the original, unmodified files generated by instruments are collected during experiments.
Intermediate and analysis data
These are the cleaned, transformed, or filtered datasets used for analysis.
They represent the bridge between raw data and results.
Processing and analysis scripts
Coder scripts that document how the data were cleaned, processed, or analyzed.
These are essential for reproducibility.
Output slash results
Final outputs, such as graphs, summary tables, or statistical results, typically generated from analysis scripts.
Readme files and codebooks.
These provide context and documentation.
The readme explains the dataset structure and codebooks describe variables, formats, and metadata.
For more guidance on organizing files, you can explore the linked resource shown on the slide.